# IU_PRIDE-Parkinson-s-Research-through-Integrative-Data-Experiments

Parkinson’s Research through Integrative Data Experiments (PRIDE) aims to create breakthroughs in Parkinson’s Disease (PD) research through insights gained from integrating diverse data sources and applying advanced machine learning algorithms to the resultant graph of knowledge. These leading-edge techniques and algorithms are the result of over a decade of research at Indiana University. 

PRIDE currently exists as a small, bootstrapped collaboration between Indiana University, physicians in the Palo Alto Medical System, and Data2Discovery Inc, a company spun out of Indiana University. We are currently carrying out pilot studies in three areas: metagenomics, links between PD and Melanoma, and genetic associations with PD. 

Knowledge about Parkinson’s Disease (PD) is multi-layered, vast and covers many disciplines. There are huge gaps in knowledge about the causes, markers, and drivers of progression for the disease. Integrative approaches to Parkinson’s such as that sought by Aligning Science Across Parkinson’s (ASAP) require integrative approaches to knowledge and data to facilitate the discovery of new insights. Large amounts of data and knowledge have been generated by researchers, and while much of it is public, it is not well integrated and it is not always clear how everything is related to everything else. While we know that Parkinson’s is related to other disease states, those links are not clear. Hidden in an integrated graph of research data there would be a treasure trove of many potential hidden force multipliers waiting to be found.  For instance, by integrating in datasets from metabolomics, high throughput screening, genomics and the human microbiome we can expose the connection paths among PD with Breath Data and other primary research source data which may identify new biomarkers; we can identify potential complex links of PD with co-morbitity, diet and drugs, or we can identify on-market drugs that we believe could have an impact on Parkinson’s that are not currently indicated for the disease. 
